Conceptual Scenario: John, a 19-year-old engineering student in his first year at Ontario Tech, is sitting in the campus library scrolling through his notes but struggling to focus on studying. He has a midterm coming up in a week, and remembers when he once studied for countless hours only to receive a D grade, and loses all motivation. He asks a classmate for help with study habits, and he is recommended to try an AI-powered study tool called Study Buddy. Skeptical at first, John gives the study tool a try with the thought that it will just be another tool that misinterprets questions or gives generic advice. John is surprised when the AI suggests a personalized study schedule based on his course syllabus, giving a day-to-day timeline leading up to the exam on the topics he should focus on. Over the next 6 days John follows the generated study schedule and any time gets distracted or forgets his daily studying, the AI prompts him back on track. On the morning of the midterm, John feels confident and prepared for his upcoming test, and is thankful that Study Buddy helped him focus and stay consistent throughout studying. 

Concrete Scenario: It’s a Wednesday afternoon in the library packed full of students at Ontario Tech. John Gort, a 19-year-old first-year engineering student, and part time grocery store clerk, just a 3 hour gap between his lab and upcoming lecture. He sits at an empty seat in the library, opens his laptop and notebook, and is overrun by calendar reminders for upcoming deadlines and tests. John knows he should review his physics notes for his midterm next Friday, but he does not have any motivation, and is overwhelmed with all of his other due dates. He scrolls through his notes, and flips through his binders, unsure on where to begin. There is such an abundance of material to cover, he spends ten minutes just trying to decide where he should start. John decides to launch Study Buddy on his laptop, and uploads his course syllabus, exam date, and schedule. Study Buddy analyzes his syllabus and breaks down his course material into a 8-day study plan, with a detailed timeline that allocates time slots for lecture review, summarized notes, and generates daily quizzes to help effectively prepare him for the midterm. Based on results, it can also adaptively focus on areas that John struggles with. If John becomes distracted or misses a review session, Study Buddy sends him a reminder to either complete or reschedule his study session. Each day, John receives a notification on his smartphone: “Don’t forget to spend 45 minutes reviewing Chapter 2 - Kinematics before the end of the day” Study Buddy also gives John AI-generated quizzes based on topics he is struggling with, or optional uploads of previous tests. The AI tool can answer questions in real-time, but focuses on guiding John in the right direction rather than giving him the direct answer. By Thursday night, John has completed each of his study sessions and has aced all of his practice quizzes. Study Buddy also gives him a high-level summary sheet of the topics he struggled with for a quick review the morning of the midterm. He feels confident and at-ease after using Study Buddy to help manage his time, keep him motivated, and reduce distractions.